Suboptimal fluid intake may require enhanced release of antidiuretic hormone (ADH) or vasopressin for the maintenance of adequate hydration. Enhanced copeptin levels (reflecting enhanced vasopressin levels) in 25% of the common population are associated with enhanced risk of metabolic syndrome with abdominal obesity, type 2 diabetes, hypertension, coronary artery disease, heart failure, vascular dementia, cognitive impairment, microalbuminuria, chronic kidney disease, inflammatory bowel disease, cancer, and premature mortality.
Vasopressin stimulates the release of glucocorticoids which in turn up-regulate the serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase 1 (SGK1).
Moreover, dehydration upregulates the transcription factor NFAT5, which in turn stimulates SGK1 expression.
SGK1 is activated by insulin, growth factors and oxidative stress via phosphatidylinositide-3-kinase, 3-phosphoinositide-dependent kinase PDK1 and mTOR.
SGK1 is a powerful stimulator of Na+/K+-ATPase, carriers (e.g. the Na+,K+,2Cl- cotransporter NKCC, the NaCl cotransporter NCC, the Na+/H+ exchanger NHE3, and the Na+ coupled glucose transporter SGLT1), and ion channels (e.g. the epithelial Na+ channel ENaC, the Ca2+ release activated Ca2+ channel Orai1 with its stimulator STIM1, and diverse K+ channels).
SGK1 further participates in the regulation of the transcription factors nuclear factor kappa-B NFκB, p53, cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB), activator protein-1, and forkhead transcription factor FKHR-L1 (FOXO3a). Enhanced SGK1 activity fosters the development of hypertension, obesity, diabetes, thrombosis, stroke, inflammation including inflammatory bowel disease and autoimmune disease, cardiac fibrosis, proteinuria, renal failure as well as tumor growth.
The present brief review makes the case that suboptimal fluid intake in the common population may enhance vasopressin and glucocorticoid levels thus up-regulating SGK1 expression and favouring the development of SGK1 related pathologies.
Correct subtyping of primary aldosteronism (PA) is essential for good surgical outcomes.
Adrenal vein sampling (AVS) and/or computed tomography (CT) are used for PA sub-classification.
Clinical and/or biochemical improvement after surgery, however, is not always achieved in patients with presumed unilateral PA.
We aimed to identify the pitfalls in PA sub-classification leading to surgical treatment failures.
Suboptimal fluid intake may require enhanced release of antidiuretic hormone (ADH) or vasopressin for the maintenance of adequate hydration.
Enhanced copeptin levels (reflecting enhanced vasopressin levels) in 25% of the common population are associated with enhanced risk of metabolic syndrome with abdominal obesity, type 2 diabetes, hypertension, coronary artery disease, heart failure, vascular dementia, cognitive impairment, microalbuminuria, chronic kidney disease, inflammatory bowel disease, cancer, and premature mortality.
Vasopressin stimulates the release of glucocorticoids which in turn up-regulate the serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase 1 (SGK1).
Moreover, dehydration upregulates the transcription factor NFAT5, which in turn stimulates SGK1 expression.
SGK1 is activated by insulin, growth factors and oxidative stress via phosphatidylinositide-3-kinase, 3-phosphoinositide-dependent kinase PDK1 and mTOR. SGK1 is a powerful stimulator of Na+/K+-ATPase, carriers (e.g. the Na+,K+,2Cl- cotransporter NKCC, the NaCl cotransporter NCC, the Na+/H+ exchanger NHE3, and the Na+ coupled glucose transporter SGLT1), and ion channels (e.g. the epithelial Na+ channel ENaC, the Ca2+ release activated Ca2+ channel Orai1 with its stimulator STIM1, and diverse K+ channels).
SGK1 further participates in the regulation of the transcription factors nuclear factor kappa-B NFκB, p53, cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB), activator protein-1, and forkhead transcription factor FKHR-L1 (FOXO3a).
Enhanced SGK1 activity fosters the development of hypertension, obesity, diabetes, thrombosis, stroke, inflammation including inflammatory bowel disease and autoimmune disease, cardiac fibrosis, proteinuria, renal failure as well as tumor growth.
The present brief review makes the case that suboptimal fluid intake in the common population may enhance vasopressin and glucocorticoid levels thus up-regulating SGK1 expression and favouring the development of SGK1 related pathologies.
One of the most commonly identified chronic illnesses in many countries is type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
T2DM denotes an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD).
Heart disease is one of the causes of mortality in patients with diabetes, mainly due to the macrovascular complications.
One of these macrovascular complications in diabetes is atherosclerosis, which involves a complicated pathophysiological process.
Besides hyperglycemia, oxidative stress plays a significant role in the pathogenesis of diabetes and its associated risk of CVD.
There are many other factors including molecular, metabolic, lipid, fibrinolytic, and platelet function disorders precipitate to thrombotic and CVD risks in T2DM.
Also, Platelets have an increased response to procoagulants in patients with diabetes.
Platelet hyperactivity, in the presence of oxidative stress, has a major effect on the progression of thrombotic and CVD events.
This review will discuss the impact of the above factors and the potential effects of platelet hyperactivity on thrombotic and cardiovascular risks.
Environmental exposure to metals may adversely affect cardiometabolic health.
However, little data are available directly evaluating the roles of metal exposure in blood glucose of which dysfunction has been linked to diabetes.
We aimed to evaluate the dose-response associations between fasting plasma glucose (FPG) and multiple urinary metals including nickel, cobalt, copper, zinc, and arsenic, as well as to examine their joint effects among occupational workers.
Sympatho-adrenal responses are activated as an innate defense coping (DefS) mechanism during emotional stress.
Whether these sympatho-adrenal responses drive cardiac troponin T (cTnT) increases are unknown.
Therefore, associations between cTnT and sympatho-adrenal responses were assessed.
Pioglitazone (PIO), a synthetic ligand for peroxisome proliferator activated receptor γ (PPARγ), is clinically used to treat type 2 diabetes mellitus.
However, little is known on its endothelial protective effects and the underlying mechanisms.
In this study, we sought to investigate PIO's endothelial protective effects and its likely mechanisms.
95% confluent high glucose concentration (HG, 33 mM)-injured WT-HUVECs and PPARγLow-HUVECs were first pretreated with 10 μM of GW9662 for 30 minutes, and then treated with various concentrations of PIO (5, 10, 20 μM) for 24 hours.
Finally, the levels of NO, endothelin 1(ET1), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) and interleukin 6 (IL6) were detected.
The cells were utilized to determine the cell viability, caspase3 activity, the levels of inhibitory κB kinase α/β (IKKα/β) mRNA, IKKα/β, and nuclear factor κB (NFκB) p65.
Severe dysfunction and activation of IKKα/β-NFκB signaling occurred after exposure of HUVECs to HG.
Conversely, treatment with PIO significantly attenuated the dysfunction and the activation of IKKα/β-NFκB signaling induced by HG in a dose-dependent manner.
Moreover, the protective effects of PIO were completely abrogated by GW9662 or down-regulation of PPARγ.
Taken together, PIO protects HUVECs against the HG-induced dysfunction through the inhibition of IKKα/β-NFκ B signaling mediated by PPARγ.
The deposition of human islet amyloid polypeptide (hIAPP) within β-cells is implicated in the etiology of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2Dm).
It was reported that heme could bind to hIAPP and we speculate that the binding may also correlate to the aggregation of hIAPP.
In this study, UV-Vis spectroscopy was used to detect interaction pattern between heme and hIAPP.
ThT and Bis-ANS fluorescence assay, circular dichroism spectroscopy, gel electrophoresis assay and transmission electron microscopy were employed to study the effect of heme on the aggregation of hIAPP.
We found that heme dramatically inhibited hIAPP aggregation and fibril formation, even partially dismantled hIAPP aggregates by preventing its conformational changes.
Moreover, similar inhibitory effect was also observed on mutant hIAPP.
In the compare group, the inhibitory effect of protoporphyrin on hIAPP and its mutants aggregation was weaker.
Similarly, its effect on the dismantlement of the aggregates was also weaker.
On the basis of these results, we revealed heme iron center was not required for the inhibitory effect on hIAPP but affected the binding affinity of heme to hIAPP.
Besides Arg11 and His18, other hydrophobic residues in hIAPP may also play an important role in the heme binding.
Our results may help to develop a deep understanding of the interactions between heme and hIAPP that would be helpful in designing new therapeutic strategies against the T2Dm.
Everyday discrimination may contribute to incident metabolic syndrome (MetS) in the U.S. and related racial/ethnic differences in MetS.
This study investigated whether ED predicted MetS in a diverse sample.


