Suboptimal fluid intake may require enhanced release of antidiuretic hormone (ADH) or vasopressin for the maintenance of adequate hydration.
Enhanced copeptin levels (reflecting enhanced vasopressin levels) in 25% of the common population are associated with enhanced risk of metabolic syndrome with abdominal obesity, type 2 diabetes, hypertension, coronary artery disease, heart failure, vascular dementia, cognitive impairment, microalbuminuria, chronic kidney disease, inflammatory bowel disease, cancer, and premature mortality.
Vasopressin stimulates the release of glucocorticoids which in turn up-regulate the serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase 1 (SGK1).
Moreover, dehydration upregulates the transcription factor NFAT5, which in turn stimulates SGK1 expression.
SGK1 is activated by insulin, growth factors and oxidative stress via phosphatidylinositide-3-kinase, 3-phosphoinositide-dependent kinase PDK1 and mTOR.
SGK1 is a powerful stimulator of Na+/K+-ATPase, carriers (e.g. the Na+,K+,2Cl- cotransporter NKCC, the NaCl cotransporter NCC, the Na+/H+ exchanger NHE3, and the Na+ coupled glucose transporter SGLT1), and ion channels (e.g. the epithelial Na+ channel ENaC, the Ca2+ release activated Ca2+ channel Orai1 with its stimulator STIM1, and diverse K+ channels).
SGK1 further participates in the regulation of the transcription factors nuclear factor kappa-B NFκB, p53, cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB), activator protein-1, and forkhead transcription factor FKHR-L1 (FOXO3a).
Enhanced SGK1 activity fosters the development of hypertension, obesity, diabetes, thrombosis, stroke, inflammation including inflammatory bowel disease and autoimmune disease, cardiac fibrosis, proteinuria, renal failure as well as tumor growth.
The present brief review makes the case that suboptimal fluid intake in the common population may enhance vasopressin and glucocorticoid levels thus up-regulating SGK1 expression and favouring the development of SGK1 related pathologies.
Despite optimized medical therapy, severe idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH) is a devastating disease with a poor outcome. Autoantibodies have been detected in IPAH that can contribute to worsening of the disease.
One of the most commonly identified chronic illnesses in many countries is type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
T2DM denotes an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD).
Heart disease is one of the causes of mortality in patients with diabetes, mainly due to the macrovascular complications.
One of these macrovascular complications in diabetes is atherosclerosis, which involves a complicated pathophysiological process.
Besides hyperglycemia, oxidative stress plays a significant role in the pathogenesis of diabetes and its associated risk of CVD.
There are many other factors including molecular, metabolic, lipid, fibrinolytic, and platelet function disorders precipitate to thrombotic and CVD risks in T2DM.
Also, Platelets have an increased response to procoagulants in patients with diabetes.
Platelet hyperactivity, in the presence of oxidative stress, has a major effect on the progression of thrombotic and CVD events.
This review will discuss the impact of the above factors and the potential effects of platelet hyperactivity on thrombotic and cardiovascular risks.
Methamphetamine dependence is a major public health problem.
This study examined the nature, and extent, of cardiovascular disease amongst cases of methamphetamine-related death in Australia, 2009-2015.
Sympatho-adrenal responses are activated as an innate defense coping (DefS) mechanism during emotional stress.
Whether these sympatho-adrenal responses drive cardiac troponin T (cTnT) increases are unknown.
Therefore, associations between cTnT and sympatho-adrenal responses were assessed.
The identification of rare coding or splice site variants remains the most straightforward strategy to link genes with human phenotypes.
Here, we analyzed the association between 137,086 rare (minor allele frequency (MAF) <1%) coding or splice site variants and 15 hematological traits in up to 308,572 participants.
We found 56 such rare coding or splice site variants at P<5x10-8, including 31 that are associated with a blood-cell phenotype for the first time.
All but one of these 31 new independent variants map to loci previously implicated in hematopoiesis by genome-wide association studies (GWAS).
This includes a rare splice acceptor variant (rs146597587, MAF = 0.5%) in interleukin 33 (IL33) associated with reduced eosinophil count (P = 2.4x10-23), and lower risk of asthma (P = 2.6x10-7, odds ratio [95% confidence interval] = 0.56 [0.45-0.70]) and allergic rhinitis (P = 4.2x10-4, odds ratio = 0.55 [0.39-0.76]).
The single new locus identified in our study is defined by a rare p.Arg172Gly missense variant (rs145535174, MAF = 0.05%) in plasminogen (PLG) associated with increased platelet count (P = 6.8x10-9), and decreased D-dimer concentration (P = 0.018) and platelet reactivity (P<0.03).
Finally, our results indicate that searching for rare coding or splice site variants in very large sample sizes can help prioritize causal genes at many GWAS loci associated with complex human diseases and traits.
Osteoprotegerin (OPG) is associated with a poor prognosis in patients with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF).
OPG has also been associated with fibrosis and collagen cross-linking, which increase arterial and left ventricle (LV) myocardial stiffness.
Little is known about the relation of OPG and LV structure and function in African-Americans who are disproportionately affected by HFpEF.
Hyperlipidemia is a well-established risk factor for coronary artery disease (CAD).
Severe CAD has been observed in patients with normal levels of total and LDL cholesterol.
Small-dense LDL particle subtypes (LDL3 and LDL4) have been observed to be more oxidizable and atherogenic.
We aimed to identify the role of cholesterol particle subtypes in predicting CAD severity.
Excess mortality in China due to exposure to ambient PM2.5 were determined using an ensemble prediction of annual average PM2.5 in 2013 by the Community Multiscale Air Quality (CMAQ) model with four emission inventories and observation data fusing.
Estimated Mort due to adult ischemic heart disease (IHD), cerebrovascular disease (CEV), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and lung cancer (LC) are 0.30, 0.73, 0.14, and 0.13 million in 2013, respectively, leading to a total ΔMort of 1.3 million.
Source-oriented CMAQ modeling deter-mined that industries and residential sources were the two leading sources of ΔMort, contributing to 0.40 (30.5%) and 0.28 (21.7%) million deaths, respectively.
Additionally, secondary ammonium ion from agriculture, secondary organic aerosol, and aerosols from power generation were responsible for 0.16, 0.14 and 0.13 million deaths, respectively.
A 30% ΔMort reduction in China requires an average of 50% reduction of PM2.5 throughout the country, and by 62%, 50%, and 38% for the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei, Jiangsu-Zhejiang-Shanghai, and Perl River Delta regions, respectively.
Reducing PM2.5 to CAAQS Grade II standard of 35 µg m-3 would only lead to small a reduction in mortality, and a more stringent standard of <15 µg m-3 would be needed for more remarkable reduction of Mort.



