Endomorphins are endogenous peptides that have high affinity and selectivity for
the mu-opiate receptor and potent analgesic activity. The distributions of
endomorphin 1 (Tyr-Pro-Trp-Phe-NH2; EM1) and endomorphin 2 (Tyr-Pro-Phe-Phe-NH2;
EM2) in the rat central nervous system were determined by immunocytochemistry
with two antisera, each demonstrating clear preference for the target antigen.
Perikarya expressing EM2-like immunoreactivity were present in the posterior
hypothalamus, whereas those expressing EM1-like immunoreactivity were present in
both the posterior hypothalamus and the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS).
EM1-like immunoreactivity was more widely and densely distributed throughout the
brain than was EM2-like immunoreactivity, whereas EM2-like immunoreactivity was
more prevalent in the spinal cord than was EM1-like immunoreactivity. The
greatest density of EM1-like-immunoreactive fibers was detected in the
parabrachial nucleus and the NTS, with notable staining in the septum, diagonal
band, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, organum vasculosum, nucleus of
Meynert, paraventricular thalamic nucleus, posterior hypothalamic nucleus,
periaqueductal gray, locus coeruleus, nucleus accumbens, and amygdala. The
greatest density of EM2-like-immunoreactive fibers was detected in the
superficial laminae of the spinal cord dorsal horn and the nucleus of the spinal
trigeminal tract. The overall pattern of immunoreactivities was similar in rat,
mouse, and guinea pig, but some differences were observed. In many but not in all
locations, immunoreactive fibers were prominently present in regions in which mu
receptors are reported to be concentrated. The neuroanatomical results suggest
that endomorphins participate in modulating nociceptive and autonomic nervous
system processes and responsiveness to stress.
The paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus (PVT) is a midline thalamic nucleus
that responds strongly to exposure to various stressors. Many of the projection
targets of PVT neurons, including the medial prefrontal cortex, nucleus
accumbens, and central/basolateral nuclei of the amygdala, are also activated by
stress. We sought to determine if PVT neurons that respond to stress are those
that project to one or more of these forebrain sites. Retrograde tract tracing
combined with immunohistochemical detection of Fos protein-like immunoreactivity
was used to assess the activation of target-specific populations of PVT
projection neurons by mild footshock stress in the rat. Stress markedly increased
Fos protein-like immunoreactivity in PVT neurons, but without regard to the
projection target of the thalamic neurons. Thus, the percentage of PVT cells that
were retrogradely labeled from either the prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens,
or amygdala, and that expressed Fos-like immunoreactivity did not differ
substantially across the three forebrain sites. These data suggest that the PVT
may have a role as a generalized relay for information relating to stress, and
may serve an important role in the stress-induced activation of limbic forebrain
areas.
